# realestateinathens
Athens is Europe’s oldest capital city. The central parts of the metropolitan area, especially its architecture, are a constant reminder of the greatness of Ancient Greece. Here ancient monuments rub shoulders with both Byzantine and modern buildings. All together they create a unique and special image of today’s Athens.Without any doubt, the Athens City Center is a magnet for all tourists who come to visit the capital. Most of them seek to stay in the downtown area not to waste precious time on the commute to the main tourist attractions. Tourist accommodations are of high demand in the Plaka area, which is the historic city center and just a step away from the majestic Acropolis and other ancient monuments. Even a simple stroll around this neighborhood, with its narrow streets and alleys with their white houses, is a unique experience. Plaka, especially it’s western part – Anafiotika, is simply an open-air museum, which makes it just logical that the tourism and restaurant businesses are booming here. Countless traditional taverns are always ready to introduce all visitors to Plaka to the best Greek foods and the souvenir shops offer the widest range of products one can take away from Athens as a reminder of this authentic city.  Should one wish to invest in real estate in Plaka, the commercial property would be the best choice: shops, restaurants, studios for short-term rent. If one is lucky enough to find a house for sale in this area, setting up a business there is guaranteed profit. Even though the Athens City Center rarely offers for sale large real estate, to buy such property is still sometimes possible.  Those tourists, who wish to have the best view of Acropolis, choose accommodations in the Monastiraki area, which is also part of the Athens City Center. This area is home to many high-end tourist accommodations of the central part of the capital. The prices for such apartments and penthouses are usually lower than in the local hotels, which makes investments into residential property with the right location a profitable. Should it not be possible to find a property with a great view, the other option is to find an apartment close to the main shopping street Ermou. It is the place where every tourist goes for great shopping experience: a row of shops of the largest global and local retail companies, along with small local shops flows into a vintage market, which in itself is a tourist attraction and offers a great Athenian adventure.  Another prominent part of the Athens City Center is the Syntagma area. Its heart is the Syntagma Square, which translates from Greek as the “Constitution Square”. It is always full of tourists who are drawn to it both by the beauty of the square itself, as well as by the Hellenic Parliament, near which every tourist wants to watch the changing of the Presidential Guards, the Evzones. Close to the Syntagma Square is the Panathinaikos Stadium. Not far away from it, one can find the Academy of Athens and the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. All these attractions are to be found if one moves west from the Syntagma Square towards the Omonia square. An investor cannot go wrong with choosing commercial property in this area, including office premises or student accommodations.  Another area of the Athens City Center which is of high interest is Kerameikos, where one can find one of the most extinguished ancient monuments – the Ancient Cemetery of Athens. In addition, anyone who is into natural attractions will be interested to know, that in the Kerameikos area one can find a large population of Greek tortoise. Yet this area has much more to offer, including the Athenian Technopolis, the vast part of which belongs to the Gazi area, which is the largest industrial area of the Greek capital. During the last decade, Gazi has been actively developed and now one can find here both apartments for rent and property for sale. Another area that has an “industrial past” is Metaxourgio, which gained the reputation of one of the cultural centers of the Greek capital and is home to a number of theatres and art galleries.  Part of the Athenian the historic city center is also the Omonia Square, already mentioned above, and the streets and alleys surrounding it. Hotels, trade, and business centers – commercial property for sale – those are the key attractions for any potential investor in this area. This area has been chosen by the recent immigrants who settled in the city, as well as by students who study at the local university, for which reason student accommodations and rental apartments for long-term rents are of high demand in this area.  The Thissio the neighborhood, which is also part of the Athens City Center, is situated behind the hill located north of the Acropolis. It is home to a number of the key tourist attractions: Temple of Hephaestus, Byzantine Church of the Holy Apostles, synagogues, museums and the Athens Conservatory. The best investments in this part of Athens can be made to tourist and student accommodations, commercial and residential property. An investor will be lucky to find property for sale by the owner: it will be an opportunity to minimize the costs, which substantially increase by the fees of real estate agents, realtors, and ensure a profitable real estate investment in Greece. Thissio is one of the greenest areas of the Athens City Center. However, in respect to high-end places and apartments, owned by wealthy Greeks, it is surpassed by the Kolonaki neighborhood. Expensive hotels and restaurants, the Lycabettus Hill offers a breathtaking view of Athens and the Acropolis – all of this is Kolonaki.  It is quite obvious, that the Athens City Centers offers an opportunity for investment in any type of real estate. Yet, as in any other case, an investor needs to thoroughly analyze the location, the demand, and supply in the area, which criteria are crucial for an investment project. An experienced professional, who knows all the details of the Athenian real estate market can help make a conscious choice of the right investment project, given that the sale of real estate in Greece is strictly regulated by numerous laws, to grasp which might be very time consuming for a foreign investor.
